# Scripting Basics: Introduction to Bash Scripting

Shell scripting involves writing a series of commands in a file that the shell interprets and executes. The shell acts as both a command-line interface to the underlying system and a scripting language interpreter

## Writing a Shell Script 
- Writing a Bash script, several considerations must be taken into account : 
    - [Script Format](#script-format)
    - [Script Permission](#script-permission)
    - [Script Location](#script-location)

## Script Format 
 - A Bash script should adhere to the following format:
 - Interpreter Declaration - (Shebang `#!`): The script should begin with a shebang (#!) followed by the path to the Bash interpreter. This informs the kernel about the interpreter to use when executing the script.
 - File Extension - (`.sh`): The script file should have the .sh extension to denote that it is a Bash script helps with organization and readability. 

    ```Bash
    #!/bin/Bash - #shebang
    echo "Hello from script" - #command
    ```

## Script Permission
 - For a script file to be executable, it must have the appropriate permissions set. 
 - This can be achieved using the `chmod` command. 
 - For more details on file permission - [Permission](../Part1:%20Working%20With%20Bash%20Shell/06.Permissions.md)

    ```Bash
    ## adding the executable permission bit
    dev@dev: chmod +x script.sh

    ## script file permission 
    dev@dev: ls -l script.sh
    -rwxrwxr-x 1 dev dev 13 Mar 11 18:07 /usr/bin/test.sh
    ```


## Script Location 
 - Bash script can be executed in various ways: 
    - Absolute or Relative File Path: Script can be executed by specifying the absolute or relative path of the script file.
    - Execution via File Name: If the script file is located in a directory listed in the PATH environment variable, it can executed directly by calling the filename. The `PATH` environment variable contains a list of directory that the system searches for executable programs. 

    ```Bash
    ## view directories stored in the PATH environment variable
    dev@dev: echo $PATH 
    /home/me/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games
    
    
    ## calling script in working directory 
    dev@dev:./script.sh
    Hello from script

    ## calling script that is in a directory in the PATH environment variable
    dev@dev: script.sh
    Hello from script
    ```
 
## Best Practices
Consider the following best practices when writing Bash scripts:

- Use Comments: Comments improve code readability and provide context to script functionality.
- Error Handling: Implement error handling mechanisms to gracefully handle unexpected situations.
- Testing: Test your scripts thoroughly before deployment to ensure they perform as expected.
- Documentation: Provide comprehensive documentation for your scripts, including usage instructions and any dependencies.